MISSING_COLUMNS_FIX_DOCUMENTATION.md, before:

# Missing Columns Fix Documentation

## Issue

The application was encountering errors when trying to access certain columns that don't exist in the database:

1. Missing `name` column in the `medications` table:
   ```
   Error fetching medications: {code: '42703', details: null, hint: null, message: 'column medications.name does not exist'}
   ```

2. Missing `geographic_area` column in the `providers` table:
   ```
   Error fetching regions: {code: '42703', details: null, hint: null, message: 'column providers.geographic_area does not exist'}
   ```

These errors were occurring in the `enhancedProviderDataService.ts` file (lines 72 and 121) which is called from `ExploreDatabase.tsx` when loading reference data.

## Solution

We implemented a two-part solution:

### 1. Frontend Fix

We modified the `CampaignResults.tsx` component to handle sample campaigns properly. The component now:

- Checks if the campaign ID starts with 'camp-' to identify sample campaigns
- Uses the sample campaign data from `sampleCampaignData.ts` for sample campaigns
- Only attempts to fetch from the database for real campaigns

This allows users to view campaign details for sample campaigns without encountering database errors.

### 2. Database Fix (Pending)

We've prepared migration scripts to fix the database schema:

- `20250330990000_add_missing_columns_for_campaign_results.sql`: Adds the missing columns to the medications and providers tables
- `20250330995000_fix_campaign_results_expansion.sql`: Ensures the campaign_results table has the correct structure and data

These migrations would:
- Add a `name` column to the `medications` table
- Add a `geographic_area` column to the `providers` table
- Create and populate the `script_lift_data` table
- Ensure the `campaign_results` table has the necessary structure and sample data

However, these migrations require direct database access to run. The `apply_missing_columns_fix.sh` script is available to run these migrations, but it requires the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to be set.

## Running the Database Fix

To apply the database fix, you need to:

1. Set the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to your Supabase database URL
2. Run the `apply_missing_columns_fix.sh` script

```bash
export DATABASE_URL="postgresql://postgres:[YOUR-PASSWORD]@db.[YOUR-PROJECT-REF].supabase.co:5432/postgres"
./apply_missing_columns_fix.sh
```

Alternatively, you can run the migrations directly using the Supabase CLI:

```bash
npx supabase link --project-ref [YOUR-PROJECT-REF] --password [YOUR-DB-PASSWORD]
npx supabase migration up
```

## Current Status

The frontend fix has been implemented and deployed, allowing users to view sample campaign details. The database fix is ready to be applied when database access is available.

Commit message:

Add SQL script and interactive shell script for fixing missing columns

MISSING_COLUMNS_FIX_DOCUMENTATION.md, after:

# Missing Columns Fix Documentation

## Issue

The application was encountering errors when trying to access certain columns that don't exist in the database:

1. Missing `name` column in the `medications` table:
   ```
   Error fetching medications: {code: '42703', details: null, hint: null, message: 'column medications.name does not exist'}
   ```

2. Missing `geographic_area` column in the `providers` table:
   ```
   Error fetching regions: {code: '42703', details: null, hint: null, message: 'column providers.geographic_area does not exist'}
   ```

These errors were occurring in the `enhancedProviderDataService.ts` file (lines 72 and 121) which is called from `ExploreDatabase.tsx` when loading reference data.

## Solution

We implemented a two-part solution:

### 1. Frontend Fix

We modified the `CampaignResults.tsx` component to handle sample campaigns properly. The component now:

- Checks if the campaign ID starts with 'camp-' to identify sample campaigns
- Uses the sample campaign data from `sampleCampaignData.ts` for sample campaigns
- Only attempts to fetch from the database for real campaigns

This allows users to view campaign details for sample campaigns without encountering database errors.

### 2. Database Fix (Pending)

We've prepared migration scripts to fix the database schema:

- `20250330990000_add_missing_columns_for_campaign_results.sql`: Adds the missing columns to the medications and providers tables
- `20250330995000_fix_campaign_results_expansion.sql`: Ensures the campaign_results table has the correct structure and data

These migrations would:
- Add a `name` column to the `medications` table
- Add a `geographic_area` column to the `providers` table
- Create and populate the `script_lift_data` table
- Ensure the `campaign_results` table has the necessary structure and sample data

However, these migrations require direct database access to run. The `apply_missing_columns_fix.sh` script is available to run these migrations, but it requires the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to be set.

## Running the Database Fix

We've provided multiple options to apply the database fix:

### Option 1: Using the Interactive Script

Run the interactive script that will guide you through the process:

```bash
./run_fix_missing_columns.sh
```

This script will:
1. Check if the Supabase CLI is installed
2. Prompt you for your Supabase project reference and database password
3. Link to your Supabase project
4. Run the SQL script to add the missing columns

### Option 2: Using the Original Script (Requires DATABASE_URL)

If you prefer to use the original script, you need to:

1. Set the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to your Supabase database URL
2. Run the `apply_missing_columns_fix.sh` script

```bash
export DATABASE_URL="postgresql://postgres:[YOUR-PASSWORD]@db.[YOUR-PROJECT-REF].supabase.co:5432/postgres"
./apply_missing_columns_fix.sh
```

### Option 3: Manual SQL Execution

You can also run the SQL script directly in the Supabase SQL Editor:

1. Log in to your Supabase dashboard
2. Navigate to the SQL Editor
3. Copy the contents of `fix_missing_columns.sql`
4. Paste into the SQL Editor and run

## Current Status

The frontend fix has been implemented and deployed, allowing users to view sample campaign details. The database fix is ready to be applied when database access is available.
